---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Christopher Snider Presentation, Open Source and the Community
---

This week I'm writing about Christopher Snider's talk, and reflecting more on hoe Tidepool and other open efforts fit in within communities at large and the initiatives they take. 

**Christopher Snider's Presentation**

Having Christopher Snider talk to us was a great pleasure. Having watched the video about TidePool and read his articles last week I was looking forward to it and certainly was not diappointed. I liked how his discussion reiterated several themes that we touched on earlier in the semester, especially with regard to the importance of communication and how communities focused around a single idea (in this case the importance of effective and well cared for diabetes management) can work together productively against all odds. The product is great, of course, and after his talk I in fact reached out to a few of my high school friends whom I know as living with Type I Diabetes (which as Chris said was most of their users) and was surprised that one of them has actually used Tidepool software before!  

I also found it interesting to learn about how Tidepool acquired funding for its core team, especially given the product's free and open-source nature. The idea of users being able to "donate their data" to Tidepool for them to be able to license out is something I find quite future-forward especially as data becomes an increasingly valuable asset. The idea of financing the core team of an open source project was a question we've never really touched on in this class before (other than references to donations) so seeing a creative approach like this was very interesting. 

**Open Efforts and the Community at large**

I think Tidepool is a great instance of a project for a community, of a community, and by the community. Snider outlined how most of their most committed contributers were part of the diabetes community (i.e. living with or close family/friends with someone living with) diabetes, and it's interesting to think about not only how communities band together to create open efforts, but how open efforts can create more tightly-knit communities. I can imagine this is particularly true in the sciences, like in the video about the Gowanus Canal we watched ("The Science of Collective Discovery"). I'm definitely going to look into this and see if there are any open scientfic communities to which I could contribute. 


**Weekly food spot reflections**

Paquito's Mexican in the East village is a great spot for some Nachos or Enchilladas! Delivery is free on their website too so that's great! I for one love generous servings of cheese so it's quite a great time! 
