---
layout: post
title: Code of Conduct Activity, Reflections
---
This week's blog post concerns the Code of Conduct activity we did in class, as well as reflections on my experience working on the add-on project. For the Code of Conduct activity I worked with Alex Casieri. 

**Part 1**

The Go Project's [code of conduct](https://go.dev/conduct) by its own scope seeks to "specify a baseline standard of behavior so that people with different social values and communication styles can talk about Go effectively, productively, and respectfully." This self-stated goal very effectively sums up its purpose: it establishes the bare minimum social standards to which all members of the Go development community (so-called "Gophers") are asked to hold themselves. The project also has a secondary stated goal of outlining the means of conflict resolution, which *de jure* allows for a way for these standards to be enforced when members are found in violation thereof. 

This two-step code of conduct approach is quite important since it delineates behavioral outcomes that are acceptable from those that are not. In an open-source project, not all conflict is a bad thing: in fact, a healthy amount of conflict is *necessary* for a well-run project, since it evidences its community's willingness to engage in meaningful (even if at times pointed) debate regarding what constitutes a better future for the project at large. Go's code of conduct ergo wishes to encourage such productive interactions while also attempting to restrict the (d)evolution of such debate into a counterproductive state, as well as to disallow approaches from users that may be well-meaning for the project but mean or discouraging toward other (especially newer or, for instance, foreign-language-speaking) community members. 

Just as important, however, is the second goal of outlining realistic and effective means through which community members can assert their right to an environment that suits the goals outlined and seek consequences for those who violate it.

Many open source projects could benefit from having such a document. The two-step approach allows for the expectation of a welcoming and effective development environment to be precisely set and effectively enforced in a manner tht suits the needs of a community without stifling healthy debate or discussion.  

We also compared the Go Project's code of conduct to [The Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/), from which it is adapted. The main differences observed involved the addition of the "Gopher Values" section, which helps as it provides a more moral approach to the code of conduct, as well as a more detailed practical approach to implementation, which is a more concrete and Go-specific version of the template provided by the Contribuor Covenant. The latter simply supports reporting violations by emailing the project team; Go allows a secondary escalation of the complaint through the more elevated Google Open Source Programs Office. 

**Part 2**

We also read through Sugar Labs' [Code of Conduct](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct). While similar in spirit, this one was structured wholly differently from that of the Go Project. It seems to focus more on the 'values' aspect of Go's code of conduct, using imperative language to emphasize values such as through the headings "Be considerate", "Be collaborative," and "When you are unsure, ask for help." 

This code of conduct is based on that of Ubuntu, linked [here](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct). 

Both these code of conducts also lack a discussion of enforcement mechanisms, which in my opinion renders them substantially less effective: they seem more like idealized promises than actual rules, which is understandably a different interpretation of the words 'code of conduct.' 

**Part 3**

The NumPy project's code of conduct is linked [here](https://numpy.org/code-of-conduct/). This project's code of conduct says it is based on that of the SciPy project, whose code of conduct is linked [here](https://www.scipy2020.scipy.org/code-of-conduct). It seems to utilize the best aspects of both the codes of conduct discussed above: outlining a section of "Specific Guidelines" allows for an extensive yet concise summary of the expectations the community sets, much like Sugar Lab's list of imperative requests made to community members. The project also outlines "Reporting Guidelines" with detailed specification, much like the Go Community's approach. They *also* outline a secondary contact for escalation of issues, allowing community members an enhanced route toward enforcement of the code of conduct's requirements. 


**Add-on project reflections**

For my add-on project I've been working with Michelle and Chloe. I'm pretty excited about how this is turning out—the in-class exercises that helped us build our first two extensions were definitely a lot of fun and showed us a small range of the wide variety of options with regard to how flexible and easy building a firefox extension can be!



