---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Project Evaluation Activity, lecture videos
---

This week I'm writing about the Project Evaluation Activity I did along with Celina, as well as bringing in a few thoughts on the videos we watched in place of the Thursday lecture. 

**Our Project Evaluation Activity**

For our project evaluation activity we were assigned to work with SciPy, a general-purpose python scientific programming package. This was a result of the fact that I listed SciPy as my favorite open source project. I've actually been using SciPy for several years now: as a physics major, I have found it quite handy when working with lab reports and other scientific/scientific-adjacent purposes. SciPy is actually quite a large project: as of when we wrote on Tuesday, it had 27,381 commits. Now, Sunday evening, as of writing, I see 27,421. That's 80 commits in 5 days! The project being quite expansive and technical naturally has a lot that goes into it and I suppose we weren't surprised to see that most contemporary edits were highly technical in nature and focused on specific build problems. Nonetheless, I think I personally went into this project expecting to find *only* such kind of issues and commits. So I was quite surprised after all to find that essentially every 2-3 days there is a "good first issue" that pops up, often dealing with documentation. I was also surprised as to how phenomenally well-detailed their "guide for developers" was, helping new potential contributors to every step involved in submitting code contributions! Nonetheless the room for a beginner in such an environment is unfortunately still rather limited, which makes me somewhat uncertain as to whether or not I could meaningfully contribute as a beginner (perhaps with the expectation of the occasional documentation fixes).  


**Videos watched**

In lieu of our Thursday lecture, we were asked to watch several videos that I thought provided very interesting (not to mention cinematically well-developed) insights into how open-source software are deployed in the real world to solve real problems. I feel like all our exposure thus far has focused on this idea that Open Source software are (to paraphrase presidentially) "of the software engineers, by the software engineers, and for the software engineers." So I was quite surprised to see how the "Opening the Loop" video showed me that Tidepool existed with a *raison d'être* of using an open source approach to entirely democratize (and make highly accessible and customizable!) the way blood sugar data are collected and used by those suffering from diabetes and by their support systems. The articles by Christopher Snider we were asked to read proved quite insightful into this matter as well. I also loved how "The Science of Collective Discovery" connected Open Source software to a cause I care for deeply: open access to science and scientific tools. It never really occured to me (though it should have been quite obvious) that environmental projects could be so easily opened to the public when implemented well with open source software. Seeing it be so well-reinforced by a project here in the Gowanus canal in New York City so close to home really made it stand out to me. I think this combination of science-in-the-fields and open source data is definitely something I would love to explore in more detail, and perhaps even contribute towards! 


**Weekly food spot reflections**

This random tiny place called "Family Pizza" in Flatbush was pretty great, especially at $2.75 a slice. Or maybe I was just hungry after ice skating. I don't know.  
