---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Reflections on Riju Khatri's talk and other groups' presentations
---

This week I'm reflecting on Riju Khatri's talk as well as presentations made by other groups. 


**Riju's talk**

I found Riju's talk very interesting, as it provided great detail into how Open Source can be a side project one can weave into one's life despite all the challenges from school and work. I think she provided a great framework with which I could approach future open source projects, specifically by spending a few weeks using the product itself before I dive into its code and attempt to contribute. I think this is definitely something I failed to do with Oppia, although that could be attributed to just how our performance is constrained by the format of the semester itself. I also liked how she discussed her work in Open Source and in hackathons while being employed at BlackRock. As someone who is graduating to become a software engineer, I think that balance is going to be increasingly relevant to me and it was reassuring to see Riju discuss that and answer my question about it. 


**Other Presentations**

I found others' presentations incredibly insightful, especially with regard to how they just appear to comprehensively span the set of experiences one can have while dealing with open source projects. Seeing others learn and struggle and work their way through it was great, and I like how each group told a story of its own. I'm certainly looking forward (although I am a little anxious) about our upcoming presentation. 

To echo what I said last week, sure, the grass may always be greener on the other side, but I think there remains something to be said _ipso facto_ about the benefits of working with a smaller Open Source team. That I think is a regret I have from choosing Oppia that I think may be worth discussing. 

**Weekly food spot reflections**

None, too busy for finals :(
