---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - The Open Source Movement
---


To me the word "Open Source" is important because it underlies so many important concepts in modern information technology. I think of not only how the open-source paradigm has led to so many critically important software packages, but also how it has affected information accessibility at large through platforms such as Wikipedia. 

I think one of the most important benefits of the open source paradigm's more decentralized approach to software development, when compared to a closed source approach, is how it relies on the "wisdom of the crowd." This is to say that it is individual voluntary judgment under a broader societal set of objectives is what informs decision making.


There is also a more principle-oriented advantage to Open-Source development, which is to say that it in many ways enshrines a democratization of parts of the internet. If the internet were to be analogized to the real world, these open-source projects would be comparable to public goods, prepared for the benefit of citizens and changes in its condition (such as an ill-maintained highway) leaving their managers answerable to citizens. The discussion forums open source software projects rely on really are not that different from the ancient Roman fora (yes, that is the correct plural form of *forum*) or any boring old American city hall debate today. Not 

Ultimately, power in the open source paradigm is wielded by the people, with suggestions brought forth by and changes made by end-users who are willing to contribute to a greater cause.

But this is certainly not always the case, and the individual extent to which such feedback from the public is welcomed and accepted ultimately depends on a core set of users that are responsible for final decision-making (or, sometimes, by one person granted the amusingly pompous title of Benevolent Dictator For Life). It is ultimately the management style pursued by these individuals that decides how well an open source project is run and the extent to which it is reflective of the *vox populi* at large. 

Even then, the wisdom of the crowd is not always reliable, and there is a fine balancing act that must be pursued by people given this power in an open source project. If open source projects were to be exceedingly welcoming to code changes with little regard to documentation, debugging, or backwards-compatability, the project could easily collapse under its own weight. 

This is why I chose to take this class: to learn about what makes open source projectsgood, effective, and well-maintained. I want to understand what's behind the scenes of so many open source projects I rely on. These include not just development tools such as Python (as well as a substantial fraction of its packages) and Java, but also non-programming projects such as Wikipedia and Stackexchange. Ultimately, open source projects have come to reshape how we use computers today, and I would love to learn how this has come to be. 

Here's a humorous take on what interested me as well:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">the most consequential figures in the tech world are half guys like steve jobs and bill gates and half some guy named ronald who maintains a unix tool called &#39;runk&#39; which stands for Ronald&#39;s Universal Number Kounter and handles all math for every machine on earth</p>&mdash; Druthers Haver (@6thgrade4ever) <a href="https://twitter.com/6thgrade4ever/status/1433519577892327424?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 2, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
