---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Working on Oppia
---

This week I'm reflecting on the progress I've made with Karina and Evelyn contributing towards Oppia. 

**Installation Issues**

Yeah that's really been the theme for the week. All 3 of us have been struggling with that, and all 3 for different reasons, it seems. Somehow after pretty much a week of working on-and-off on this I managed to get it up and running. I think a substantial part of the problem comes from the fact that I've been running a very messy python setup for years now. Don't get me wrong—I love Python, but sometimes it's... a lot. Having said that it's definitely been quite a learning experience, and it's interesting to see exactly how elaborate the dependencies can get for such seemingly-straightforward projects. In this case I'm pretty sure I had to install 3 different versions of python (this is where I spent a lot of time debugging because something broke my python paths permanently to the point that even my jupyter notebooks stopped working!) 


Randall Munroe puts it really well in [this xkcd](https://xkcd.com/1987/). To love Python is a struggle. 

I think it's also great that we have more classmates working on Oppia—I think in the future that will lead to increased inter-team collaboration, which should definitely come in handy when we inevitably find ourselves staring at code we can't understand. Also shout-out to Lev for writing a troubleshooting guide and posting it on the class Wiki!

All in all I'm glad I finally got this to work and we didn't have to switch teams, hopefully we're able to contribute soon!

**Weekly food spot reflections**

None this week, sadly! :(
