---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Tom Callaway's Guest Lecture, on Oppia
---

This week I'm reflecting on Tom Callaway's guest lecture and the Thursday team selection for later contributions.

**Tom Callaway's Lecture**

Tom Callaway's lecture addressed quite soundly a number of questions I have previously had about the financial side of open source software development. I knew it wasn't quite easy and that financing via user contributions and/or support services has been pretty well-known for a while now. However I'm a little surprised (and admittedly concerned?) at his discussion of Amazon Web Services in the open source ecosphere. Of course, from Amazon's perspective, this makes a surprising amount of sense: as Callaway pointed out, their priority is providing the highest quality of customer services to their own clients, and I suppose if open source software could be part of their tailormade software solutions, why not? But I was also not surprised when he discussed how some projects have actually taken quite poorly to AWS' desire to be involved in maintaining/financing/helping (even if they "chop wood and carry water," as Callaway said). It reminds me of the Cathedral and the Bazaar's very on-the-nose diagnosis of programmers as being highly 'territorial' about their code. I can see why an open source community might find itself conflicted by Amazon's endeavors, but there certainly is some merit to the idea that companies should help finance open source projects, such as through grants.

I would be curious to see how this evolves over the next few years, specifically with regard to how open source communities come together across projects to discuss the motivations behind each way one could address corproate interest in helping out with a project. But right now, I have no idea how this can turn out!

**Oppia**

I've been assigned to work with Karina and Evelyn, which I'm quite excited for! All 3 of us took Computer Graphics with Prof. Perlin last semester, so it's great to work with familiar faces! We first went over what each of us could contribute, areas we were interested in, and what languages/frameworks we were comfortable with. Both of them are well-experienced at working on frontend implementations, while I'm much better at backend work, which made seeking a project somewhat challenging. Many projects we saw were heavy on Javascript and my Javascript is not quite great yet (though that could be fixed), but I think that helped us filter down our options pretty well. Oppia proved a great choice at the intersection of our skill sets, with a wide range of open (easy) issues and having a codebase mainly consisting of Python and Javascript. This was one of the two reasons that drew us to Oppia, the other being its mission of providing accessible education. 

We've begun working to understand how things work and our first meeting essentially involved installation issues. So let's see how things proceed from there!

**Weekly food spot reflections**

Not food spot per se, but the japanese curry mixes sold at H-Mart are phenomenal! 
