---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Oppia, Businesses and OSSD, and Quantum Computing
---

This week I'm reflecting on our class discussions regarding business models and open source software development, as well as on the progress I've made with Karina and Evelyn contributing towards Oppia. On Thursday I attended a talk in the Physics Department regarding Quantum Computing and I was surprised to see how much of QC research also happens to revolve around the open-source-but-with-business-interest model, so I'll be reflecting on that too! 

**Working On Oppia**

I asked to work on writing a backend test and was assigned to it! I've been working on it and submitted a pull request, [linked here](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/15292)! Honestly this was not nearly as hard as I had imagined it to be. I think the hardest part was (a) trying to understand exactly what went where, which I think was comparatively easy for some backend testing like this; and (b) doing a back-and-forth to keep committing edits every time Lint complained about formatting issues. I'm quite glad I was able to submit this pull request and am looking forward to hearing what they have to say, and hopefully merging it soon! 

**Business and Open Source Software Development**

I think it was interesting to see how Tuesday's lecture iterated over the different approaches companies have taken in the past to work with open source projects in a way that has been profitable. The most obvious one was Redhat's initial service-style approach, which Tom Callaway discussed with us as well. The approach that intrigued me the most I think was the idea that a project can be open source yet simultaneously sell vendor-like services. When Jim Hall gave his talk he once complained about how companies often emailed him/reached out to projects he lead, demanding details and specific services as if they were a vendor—even though the software in question were freeware. I think there's something to be said about the gap that exists between Open Source Developers' willingness to produce code at a relatively low operating cost and the moderately high price companies are willing to pay for the sake of full vendor-like services and guarantees. I can see how this fits in particularly in the context of Callaways' talk, when he discussed AWS attempting to fill in the gap.   

**The Quantum Computing Talk I attended, Business, and OSSD**

On Thursday I attended a talk and post-talk lunch with a retired professor and current Bloomberg Quantum Computing team leader, and in addition to discussing various scientific challenges Quantum Computing faces today, he provided a lot of insight into how so much Quantum Computing research today depends on business-backed open source ventures. Firstly, the problem is that there are just very, very few Quantum Computers out there. This means that in a closed source setting, only a handful of people would be able to contribute to the field while actually working with quantum computers. Businesses realize that this is detrimental to their own interests, and so we have things like [IBM Qiskit](https://www.ibm.com/quantum-computing/simulator/), an open source software development kit that allows anybody to work with quantum computers.

This particularly makes sense for QC today, as a lot of contemporary research in the field occurs in the academic circles, i.e. with professors and PhDs working on elaborate scientific problems and writing well-optimized quantum algorithms. And so the way businesses get involved is that they operate/lease out hardware and fund these labs in many universities with the expectation that their research may produce results that ultimately help them in the long term. It's interesting to see how open source platforms here bridge the gap between business research investment and academia, with financial ties paving the path for such an approach. I definitely was able to get a lot more out of that talk thanks to my lernings in this class. 


**Weekly food spot reflections**

Café Delia on 8th Street sure has some phenomenal Georgian snacks for pretty cheap too! 
