---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - More reflections on group work, others' presentations
---

This week I'm reflecting on the brief presentations and progress reports made by other groups, as well as my own (and my group's) progress on contributing towards Oppia.


**Other Presentations**

I really enjoyed looking at what other groups had done. Firstly it was comforting to know that we weren't the only ones to have had issues with Oppia! Seems like some of our experiences were quite universal, and hearing other groups talk about how they tackled issues we were in the process of facing was obviously quite informative. So that went well. On the other hand I did leave with a little regret, because seeing how some of the teams had managed to choose small projects with few maintainers (leading to them fostering great relationships with the core contribution team) did seem like a lot more rewarding than our interactions with Oppia. Sure, the grass may always be greener on the other side, but I think there remains something to be said _ipso facto_ about the benefits of working with a smaller Open Source team. I think that may be something to dwell on as I work with Open Source projects individually throughout my life. 


**Working On Oppia**

My first oppia PR is still stuck in flakey-test hell. At least now the maintainers have owned up to it and admit that the tests are being unreliable. My mentor finally chimed in! She re-ran a test for me, and it passed! Unfortunately the build promptly turned stale. Ah well. On the other hand we're having some great progress working with other issues! We're picking some more elaborate issues to which we may be able to contribute. We were having some issues with the dev build not appearing to match the website at all but turns out that issue was documented far away in the wiki. I'm considering bringing that up  as a suggested wiki edit and suggesting that the documentation be made clearer for future beginners. 

**Weekly food spot reflections**

Kailash Parbat on 27th St. and 3rd Ave. has hands-down some of the best Indian food in NYC. It's certainly on the pricier side but absolutely worth it.   
