---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - The Cathedral and the Bazaar, Open Source Initiatives in Global Affairs
---

This week I'm reflecting on The Cathedral and The Bazaar, and how I could leverage my interest in open source software development to global issues of interest, either geopolitical or scientific. 


**Cathedral and the Bazaar**

The Cathedral and the Bazaar was a great read, and I enjoyed every bit of it. I liked how it provides a fantastical insight into how the busy, open approach to software development can prove substantially more effective with reference to a very, so to speak, iconic example: the development of Linux. Admittedly I have hitherto been familiar with Linus Torvalds' associations largely in a morbidly-curious manner, with an emphasis on his recent infamy owing to his, uhh, sense of bluntness.  We like to think that leadership like that *should* be at odds with what open source software development stands for, but it's funny/interesting to see Linux' development in a historic context. 

I also enjoyed how it delved into the psychology of open source contributions, especially with regard to how programmers can get territorial with their code! I think that's certainly true and emotional attachment with one's own creation is certainly a thing, and definitely important to bear in mind when contributing to open source projects! 


**Open Source in Global Affairs**

On a broader scale I think it's interesting how open source initiatives can be leveraged in a humanitarian way that crosses borders. There are definitely geopolitical aspects to how this can be used (such as initiatives in the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine), but I'm a lot more intrigued by implementations in scientific matters. I'm on the lookout for projects that involve open collection of data, either manually or automatically, at a global scale and then feed that in to a larger scientific data-analysis cause. I think one hurdle to this will be learning more about the issue itself: I am a Physics and CS major and I have a hunch that most of these initiatives would have something to do with environmental science. I also enjoy working with maps and GIS/GIS-adjecent stuff, so I think an initiative like that could be cool too! 


**Weekly food spot reflections**

Midterm season, no food spot reflections! :(
