---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Open Source in Film, InnerSource, and more Oppia
---

This week I'm reflecting on the videos provided to us, the class discussions on Tuesday, as well as my group's progress w.r.t. Oppia. 


Reflect on the videos you watched about different industries' use of open source technologies, the reasons behind use of open source and the relationship between industry and open source projects. 

**Industry and Open Source Software Development**

I think the videos provided a great cross-industry sample of what is essentially the increasing omnipresence of open source technologies into pretty much every aspect of our lives. The discussion of _Open Source in Film_ in particular is something I found interesting: when I took Computer Graphics with Prof. Perlin last semester, we often discussed the historical context and development of animation/graphics technologies in contemporary filmmaking. I didn't really imagine there would be much intersection between that and my learnings this semester, but I'm quite surprised to see that I was wrong! In particular, I was suprised to see how the Academy Software Foundation is responsible for essentially triaging this entire affair. In retrospect this makes a lot of sense: a lot of cutting-edge graphics technologies do originate in academic/computationally-oriented environments (such as here at NYU at Prof. Perlin's lab) rather than in artistic ones. So it makes sense that the common 'language' between them, so to speak, is an open source platform that allows a bilateral exchange of innovation. Obviously though there is a financially imbalancing dynamic at play here: the producers of such open-source technologies and software don't quite make the millions of dollars in box office revenue the animation studios do! Naively one may think that this is what the ASWF seeks to do, but I don't know if a few grants here and there will ever quite offset such a fundamnetal divide. 

Another one of the videos that stuck out to me was the one that discussed how companies could benefit from a transition to an InnerSource approach. While I principally agree that an InnerSource approach is great and provides fantastic idea-sharing and community-building outcomes that far outperform traditional approaches, I'm not sure most companies could happily _transition_ to an InnerSource model without encountering many, many issues. This is particularly true for larger, more established corporations, I suppose, but large organizations from my understanding seem to _prefer_ a sense of hierarchy. Essentially this leaves no gaps in liability (i.e. unowned code) and no potentially-bitter disputes (over code ownership). But maybe I'm mixing my causation and correlation. Perhaps they wouldn't find InnerSource hard to get _because_ of their organization structure, but rather it is the same work culture that drives the two. Which makes me wonder: should the video be titled _How culture change can accelerate InnerSource_ instead of _How InnerSource can accelerate culture change_? That's a discussion I would watch too. 


**Working On Oppia**

My pull request, [linked here](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/15292) was approved and all the checks succeeded, but for some reason nobody bothers to merge it and the PR build becomes stale. Over the past few days I've tried to be a little more proactive about this by pinging the maintainer to whom the PR is assigned. Hopefully tomorrow being Monday they'll take a look. I made an individual contribution to another project and was surprised at how quickly [my PR](https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/5707) was accepted, and it was merged—even though I had to make another commit responding to initial feedback. So it's somewhat surprising to see Oppia take so long.  Other than that I've been working on shortlisting some more challenging issues I could tackle before the end of the semester, both in Oppia and elsewhere!


**Weekly food spot reflections**

Kailash Parbat on 27th St. and 3rd Ave. has hands-down some of the best Indian food in NYC. It's certainly on the pricier side but absolutely worth it.   
