---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Browser Extension Project
---

This week I'm writing about the broswer extension I worked on with the rest of Team 9: *ColorMeValentined*! I'm also going over some of the other teams' (really cool) projects, many of which I liked! 

**Our Browser Extension Work**

Working with Team 9 was a great experience and I learned a lot about what goes into starting a project, however small. We began by having a team meeting and brainstorming ideas that matched the timescale and commitment level of the assignment as well as our own skill levels. After some initially-amusing ideas (such as a wordle-like game based on the words from the user's page and a "reverse adblock"—which, I know, is practically malware) we settled on a browser extension that changed the theme to match one of many "moods" from which the user could select. 

Once we had decided on the objective we based our code off Mozilla's sample borderify extension and expanded it to change background colors and bring in an interactive menu. Most of what I did personally involved creating many of the "moods" and matching them to color schemes (which was an interesting challenge to my partial colorblindness) and writing up the README documentation. I hadn't worked with javascript or HTML/HTML-adjecent stuff for a while so a small project like this was a great refresher. 

I'm also glad to have been able to work with Michelle and Chloe: they were great teammates and I enjoyed our zoom calls and chats! We were able to facilitate good communication and divide work pretty fairly, which was great! Ultimately I'm pretty happy with how the extension turned out, especially for a project of this scale. 

**Other Projects**

I love how creative some people got with their projects: I especially loved Less Ugly Brightspace, which I probably will use if I figure out how I could port it over to Chrome. Seems like you'd need to change some of the arguments in manifest.json for a start. I'm also interested in seeing how Slap-A-Fetti could have its weird screen-distortion issues fixed, so maybe I'll look into that as well. Have not had much luck thus far. Either way I've loved a lot of the work the class has done!

**Weekly food spot reflections**

Top Thai Greenwich at Sullivan St. between W. 3rd St. and Bleecker has some pretty solid Pad See-Eew for a $12-ish lunch special. One appetizer and a drink included, Thai Iced Tea only a dollar extra. Right near campus too, 11/10 would recommend. 
