---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Git Exercises and the discussion with Jim Hall
---
This week's blog post concerns two things: my introductory experiences with Git in this class, and Jim Hall's amazing lecture on Thursday. I also worked as part of Team 9 in order to make our first browser extension, titled *ColorMeValentined*!


**Git Experiences**

Working with Git on Tuesday was an interesting experience: on one hand, it helped me feel a lot more comfortable using Git in a command-line setting, on the other, I encountered some SSH access issues that have taken a lot of time and energy to attempt to resolve. I suspect this comes from my historic reliance on Github Desktop—which is a bad habit, I know, but I'm certainly trying to get more familiar with the git CLI interface. Thinking of a joke was also fun. The one I settled on was:

Q. Who always has a date on Valentine's Day?

A. A calendar.

It may not be the funniest joke out there but I thought it was quite well-timed. 

**Jim Hall's guest lecture**

Jim Hall's lecture was an absolute pleasure to attend and even more delightful to engage in discussion with. I think great insights were made into the history of open-source projects and how Hall himself pioneered the creation of FreeDOS, giving way to discussion about the importance of communication in making open source projects effective. I asked him a question about what makes an open source project *unsuccessful* and his response served to reinforce that very theme: that instances of a project's decline typically follow from a decline in effective communication. This is definitely a great lesson to have learned so early on in my class and my career and I will certainly cherish it.

I also deeply enjoyed Hall's discussion about the history of computers and software development. It lends me great perspective too, to think that I am part of the first generation to have grown up so used to being surrounded by robust software that it is easy to take their existence and quality for granted. I was born in 2000 and grew up using Windows 98 and for some reason in middle school our school taught us how to program in QBASIC, which was my first programming language. I think Hall's discussion helped me connect more deeply with the limited experiences I have with what we now consider legacy software and operating systems, which I have much enjoyed.

**Progress on the browser extension**

Michelle, Chloe, and I (Team 9!) have been working on a browser extension that changes the background color of a page depending on the "mood" chosen by the user. Stay tuned for more! 


**Weekly food spot reflections (a new segment)**

Today I went to Jackson Heights and got Tibetan food for lunch. Turns out they make tea using yak butter instead of milk and it really was delicious. The idea of buttery salt in your tea is a little unfamiliar but quite rewarding. Great steamed dumplings too, of course—especially in this weather! 10/10 would recommend. 



